---
title: "Chicago Crime Analysis Using R"
date: 2020-02-11
tags: [R, Programming, data science, Machine Learning, Analysis]
header:
  image: "/images/chicago.jpg"
link: https://github.com/thanhnguyenduong/DSC520_Chicago_Crime_Analysis_Using_R
excerpt: "This project analyzes Chicago crime statistics with R"
---

Chicago is a city in the State of Illinois, filled with many landmarks and it is the third most populous city in the United States. However, due
to the high number of populations in the city, crime and traffic collision rates also increased. These unfortunate events can negatively affect
the image and how tourists viewed the city. In the datasets, there are many types of crimes recorded by the City of Chicago as well as traffic
crashes and collisions from 2015-2019. To further understand the relationship and to get the whole map outline the area where crimes most
exist, the Chicago police stations dataset is included.
This research project will help and tell a story of how the growing percentage of school drop outs can influence the crime rates.
Furthermore, an increased in the population of Chicago over time can also have an impact on traffic collisions over the years. Even though,
the percentage of school drop outs focused mainly on 2011 and 2012, it still provides a glimpse to how drop outs rates can influence the
increased crime rates in Chicago.
After finished analyzing the datasets, I found that there was not really a significant relationship between the percentage of drop outs in 2012
and the influence on its crime rates for that particular year. There are many other factors that can influence the crime rates in Chicago.
However, there was a significant relationship between the numbers of traffic collision occurrences and months of the year. As the month
increases, the traffic collision occurrence also increase. The highest occurrences in traffic crashes tend to be around winter time (October -
December), where the weather is not too friendly and roads are covered with snow and low visibility road conditions do not help in term of
reducing the crash occurrences.

### summary
1. School drop out rates can have an influence on Chicago crime rates, and as the drop out rate increase the crime rate will also
increase.
2. Chicago traffic collisions increase over time, and as the weather start to transition into the winter, traffic collisions will also increase.
